Part II Listening Comprehension

Section A  
News Report One  
The City of Fayetteville is making a special effort to recognize its bus drivers ahead of the newly proclaimed Transit Driver Appreciation Day happening Saturday. [1] As part of the event, the city is celebrating its longest-serving driver on the force.  
[1] That driver is Sherry Christian. Christian has been a driver for 25 years. The Fayetteville native believes driving a school bus allows her to give back to her community. She says that the best part of the job is watching the children who ride her bus grow up.  
Transit Driver Appreciation Day has been celebrated across the country as far back as 2009. However, this week, the City of Fayetteville issued a proclamation for the day to take place March 18th. [2] Officials said they want bus drivers to know how important they are to Fayetteville, serving almost 1.6 million riders a year.

News Report Two  
[3] The Wilton School Board has proposed a 5.99% spending increase. If approved, it would be the largest jump in at least eight budget cycles. The 5.99% request more than doubles the highest previous year-over-year increase in the last eight years, which was 2.99% for the 2021-2022 school year. The biggest driver of the $91.8 million proposed budget remains teacher salaries. These account for 64% of the total request at $59 million. The $59 million is up from the $56.7 million budgeted for the current school year.  
There are some factors that could affect the budget moving forward. One of those is total enrollment. The district will have a total enrollment of 3,742 students. Almost all of these students will be in kindergarten through high school, but 66 will be in prekindergarten and other programs. This represents 47 fewer students than the current year. [4] Fewer students mean less federal and state funding.

News Report Three  
A rare thundersnow event has taken place in Scotland. And alarmed locals contacted police, thinking they had heard bombs going off. The phenomenon happens when thunder and lightning mix with a heavy snowstorm—[5] sometimes causing loud claps that can be confused with explosions.  
One person described it as a loud boom, similar to a plane crash. Another person was woken up in the middle of the night by what he thought was early construction work starting. The noise was powerful enough to shake buildings and set off car alarms. The police were flooded with many calls from the public. [6] And they sent out a message asking people to remain calm. The police assured everyone that it was just thunder and lightning rather than some military exercise. The weather was the coldest it had been for the season, [7] so people were warned to be careful when traveling outside. In particular, dangerous conditions such as icy roads or wet ground could cause difficulty for drivers. The rail service also announced potential disruptions to trains due to the deep snow. Some roads were also closed because of the severe weather.

Section B  
Conversation One  
M: I’m going to the city centre to buy a new phone today.  
W: Didn’t you buy a new phone just two months ago?  
M: It was three months ago, and I already know what you’re going to say. You’re thinking I shouldn’t replace my phone this soon.  
W: No, [8] actually, I was wondering how you could possibly afford a new phone. But now that you mention it, I do think getting another phone so soon is wasteful, regardless of the cost.  
M: Maybe you’re right, [9] but the thing is, everyone at the office has a nice, expensive phone, and I’m a little embarrassed by mine. I just got a credit card, so I thought I might as well buy a new phone.  
W: I don’t think buying a phone on credit is a good idea. Look, you’ve only been working for five months now. People understand that you are a recent graduate, and I doubt anyone cares about your phone other than yourself.  
M: Maybe you’re right, [10] but the credit card has a very good special offer, where I don’t pay any interest for six months. I’ll be able to pay for the phone well before that period is over.  
W: I still think it’s a bad idea to use a credit card for something you don’t need. [11] One of my colleagues bought a lot of things on credit during her first year of work, and it became a bad habit, and she accumulated a lot of debt.  
M: Well, I can see how that might happen to someone, and I’m sure she regrets it, but I know it won’t happen to me.

Conversation Two  
W: Welcome to The Morning Show. Our guest today is a popular blog writer and a major figure in the tiny home community. Welcome, Bob Jones.  
M: Hi, Mary.  
W: Hi, Bob. You’re an advocate of the tiny home movement. A lot of people don’t know about this movement. Can you tell our audience what it’s about?  
M: [12] Well, it’s mainly about increasing home ownership and protecting the environment.  
W: Of course, those are great goals. But I’ve seen your blog, and you write about houses that are as small as 20 square meters. [13] That’s not a realistic size for families.  
M: I do talk about very small homes, but there’s no set definition of a tiny home. And other people include homes that are much larger, say, 60 square meters. And you’d be surprised many families of four are happy living in houses that are under 30 square meters.  
W: But I think most of us want spacious homes. The average new house in this area is 150 square meters. And that’s what people dream of owning.  
M: Yes, [14] but I think that dream needs to change, considering the cost of housing.  
W: Housing costs are high, but do people really save that much by having a smaller home?  
M: Absolutely. Many people who can only afford to rent a large home are able to buy a tiny home. In this city, the average home costs $200,000, and a tiny home costs just $50,000.  
W: Those are huge savings.  
M: [15] So, tiny homes might not be for everyone, but they’re a good option for many.  
W: You mentioned the environment earlier. How does this benefit the planet?  
M: Well, if people have smaller homes, they use less land and fewer resources to build them.

Section C  
Passage One  
Kids need time every day to run, jump, stretch and play. These experiences have been shown to build children’s confidence and pleasure in physical activities, develop their motor skills, and even improve emotional well-being.  
[16] To begin with, children seem to have a natural desire to overcome challenges and take risks. Taking healthy risks through physical movement builds children’s confidence and ability to solve problems and persist through frustration. Secondly, movement activities build children’s big body skills such as coordination and balance, as well as the fine motor skills they need for tasks like writing, tying their shoes, or throwing and catching a ball. [17] Thirdly, according to the American Psychological Association, regular physical activity (and especially outdoor activity) reduces children’s stress and depression, and improves their ability to focus and learn. Regular exercise can significantly improve self-regulation and decrease disciplinary consequences for negative behavior. Physical activity provides a positive outlet for frustration, anxiety, or anger and can become a healthy coping skill throughout life. [18] Finally, we know that physical activity is important for our physical and mental health, and cultivating the habit of physical activity starts early. Children are more likely to develop a lifelong love of physical activity from frequent positive early experiences. Not every child enjoys competitive sports or playing with balls and that’s OK. There are plenty of other options such as imaginative play, non-competitive games, and gardening or nature experiences.

Passage Two  
[19] A new study finds that job seekers are even willing to explore jobs with lower salaries when companies are more diverse. It finds that sharing information about diversity makes job postings more attractive to job seekers, even when pay is lower.  
To conduct the study, the team partnered with an online job listings platform which emails postings relevant to individuals and their job search criteria. For the course of the 11-week study, the platform emailed job listings to some 180,000 users placed in one of two conditions. [20] In the baseline condition, participants saw emails in the normal format, with no information on diversity; in the diversity condition, participants saw a diversity score for each listing: information about the race, gender, education, and language skills of a company’s workforce compared to others in the same sector and location. Information was then gathered on whether the email was opened, and which job listings were clicked on by each user.  
Participants in the diversity condition tended to click on job listings from companies with slightly higher diversity scores than those in the baseline condition: [21] that is, participants seemed to be paying attention to information about diversity, and using this when deciding whether to click on the listing. And the team also found that participants were willing to look at listings with lower salaries if they came from companies with a higher diversity score.

Passage Three  
[22][23] A new study from Oregon State University found that dogs tend to match their behavior with the children in their family. The findings are important because there is a growing body of evidence that dogs can help children in many ways. These include helping with social development, increasing physical activity, managing anxiety or serving as a source of attachment in the face of changing family structures.  
Yet, very little research has focused on how dogs perceive and socially engage with children. [24] “The great news is that this study suggests dogs are paying a lot of attention to the kids that they live with,” said Monique Udell, the lead author of the study. “One interesting thing we have observed is that dogs are matching children’s behavior, but less frequently than what we have seen between dogs and adults. This suggests that while dogs may view children as social companions, there are also some differences that we need to understand better.”  
While research has found dogs can have a lot of positive impacts on a child’s life, there are also risks associated with the dog-child relationship. For example, other studies have found dogs are more likely to bite children versus adults. “We still have a lot to learn about the dog-child relationship,” Udell said. [25] “But research does show that kids are very capable of training dogs.”