Part II Listening Comprehension

Section A  
Questions 1 and 2 are based on the news report you have just heard.  
(1) Operations at one of Australia’s largest gold mines had to be temporarily suspended on Friday after a partial wall collapse at one of the mine’s dams.  
The wall collapse at the Cadia mine came just a few days after two earthquakes hit the area.  
The damage to the dam wall was noticed in the late afternoon on Friday when workers found a section of the northern dam wall had collapsed into the southern dam.  
The dams contain waste products of mining and can contain materials which are harmful to the environment and human health.  
The dams are generally constructed using earth-fill and are gradually raised over time.  
The company was unable to confirm whether the recent earthquakes had contributed to the dam’s wall collapse, but said it was conducting a thorough investigation.  
(2) A company spokesperson said the operations at the site had been halted while the investigation is ongoing and that the break had posed no safety threat to workers.  

Questions 3 and 4 are based on the news report you have just heard.  
Two boys and four girls were born on Monday to the surprise of a young couple and doctors who had expected five babies.  
This was the first record of six babies being born at the same time in that region. (3) The doctors prepared from early in the morning to help deliver five tiny citizens. They were in the operating room with five teams of doctors, one for each baby.  
The first five babies were delivered successfully, and all baby beds were occupied. And then all of a sudden, it turned out there was another waiting to come out.  
(4) The doctor said the babies were in healthy condition, but could not go home immediately. They needed to stay in the hospital for two to three months for medical supervision.  
The mother who is in stable condition could return home a day later if all physical tests came back normal. The babies’ mother commented that they had already prepared room for five babies at home, so they will have to rearrange things for their happy surprise. The new parents have yet to name the sixth baby but are considering either Lily or Rose.  

Questions 5 to 7 are based on the news report you have just heard.  
(5) A Spanish island called Palmdor has been bought by a family from Europe for 18 million euros. The island is often described as heaven on earth by holidaymakers.  
(6) For decades tourists have been flocking to Palmdor, which is located off the southeast coast of Spain. They come to enjoy its unspoiled beaches and crystal clear waters. Its natural beauty is protected as it lies inside a natural park.  
Although Palmdor is one of the most famous private islands in the world, its seafront is public land and is a favorite destination for famous people. When the island was put up for sale, it was offered to the local government but proved too expensive for the local authorities. It is unclear whether the new owners have the power to ban tourists from the island. But with their newfound luxury comes the responsibility for its protection and maintenance. The island is less than two miles long and half a mile wide. (7) It is said to have a remarkable location that few other private islands of this size can match, according to estate agents. Palmdor is the perfect place to retreat to, somewhere to get away from the city noise and relax in beautiful surroundings with zero stress.  

Section B  
Questions 8 to 11 are based on the conversation you have just heard.  
M: Hi, Christie’s Gym Center. How can I help you?  
W: Hi, I’m calling to ask about the newly scheduled gym classes. I’m just wondering if I can get a discount on them.  
M: (8-1) Are you already a member?  
W: (8-2) Yes, I signed up two months ago, but I haven’t been to any of the group classes yet.  
M: Can I take your name please?  
W: Yes. My name is Carol Friedman.  
M: Carol Friedman. That’s right. And you signed up two months ago. (9) Currently we are offering existing members discounts off two of our brand new classes, hot yoga, and advanced spinning, but the discount doesn’t apply to any of our regular classes I’m afraid.  
W: I’m only interested in the new classes. So how much of a discount is there on these two new classes?  
M: (10) The same discount of 20% is being offered to everyone at the door on a “first come, first served” basis for the first month. It’s a shame you missed out on the general discount.  
W: I see.  
M: But you can get 25% off if you sign up in advance. Which of the two classes are you thinking about?  
W: Well, I guess I am only really interested in hot yoga. Can you sign me up for the 10-week course on Thursday evenings?  
M: Sure. (11-1) Would you prefer to pay in advance?  
W: (11-2) No, I don’t like giving my card details over the phone anyway.  
M: Okay, then. As you are already a member, the fee of the class will just be added to your monthly bill.  
W: That’s perfect. Thanks for your help.  
M: See you Thursday.  

Questions 12 to 15 are based on the conversation you have just heard.  
M: Well, I think that was quite a successful trip in the end. Don’t you think, Jenny?  
W: Absolutely. (12) There are lots of great potential markets here in China. So I’m sure that the head office in London will be pleased once we get back and present our research.  
M: Okay. We’ve got a bit of spare time now. Can we discuss the return trip to the head office?  
W: Sure. I’ve checked the availability of flights from Beijing to London on the 22nd and you have a choice. (13-1) There’s a flight arriving the following morning, with a two-hour stopover in Dubai, or a flight arriving at 11:30 in the evening, with a five-hour stopover in Amsterdam.  
M: (13-2) Right. Well, that’s obvious then, isn’t it?  
W: (13-3) Okay, so that’s Dubai. I’ve booked a room in a hotel about a mile from the office. The nearest metro station is Earl’s Court.  
M: Great. (14) Can you find a map that shows where the hotel is and send it to me online? I’ve never been to the head office, you know. I want to see if I can get one of those rental bicycles and ride to the office just for fun. For the presentation, I’ll bring my own laptop and hook it up to their projector. Do you remember the capacity of their meeting room?  
W: No, but I’ll check.  
M: Just one more thing. I’ll pay everything with my own card, right? And I’ll submit my claims form afterwards.  
W: No problem. (15) Just remember to keep all your receipts. You remember the trouble you had last time.  
M: Oh, don’t remind me.  

Section C  
Questions 16 to 18 are based on the passage you have just heard.  
A new study has demonstrated the importance of women’s rights. The researchers behind the study state that many parts of the world have made good economic progress, but women’s rights are often overlooked. (16) Thus, they wanted to determine if there was a link between protection of women’s rights and public health.  
The researchers analyzed databases which held information from 162 countries for the period 2004 to 2010. Countries were classified according to the respect they gave to women’s economic and social rights. There were three categories. They were high, moderate, and poor.  
Analysis of the data showed that countries with strong women’s rights had better health than those where women’s rights were not as respected.  
The health indicators studied included disease prevention, reproductive health, death rates, and life expectancy.  
Furthermore, in countries where women’s rights were most respected, but where access to hospitals and doctors was below average, health outcomes were still better than in countries rated as moderate or poor. (17) This confirms that even with a lack of resources, if a country has strong women’s rights, the health outcomes are better.  
Thus, the researchers argued that gender equality is not just a women’s rights issue. It is also a development issue. This is because better health aids economic development. (18) They note that the value of women’s rights has often been questioned from an economic standpoint. Some have argued that ensuring those rights would limit progress, but this study indicates the opposite.  

Questions 19 to 21 are based on the passage you have just heard.  
(19) Sunshine and high temperatures can mean picnics and parks and trips to beaches, but they can make your body react in some strange ways.  
First, sunshine can actually affect your breath. You may think that summer is the perfect time to go on a date or chat with an attractive boy or girl. (20) But excessive heat can cause you to lose water, which has been proven to have a pretty unattractive side effect—bad breath.  
When you are lacking water, your mouth becomes dry. Bacteria accumulate because there isn’t enough water in your mouth to wash it away. Sunshine can stop you from sweating, too. The body’s normal temperature is 36 to 37 degrees centigrade. But if it heats up to 40 to 41 degrees, you may find yourself getting heatstroke. At that point, your heat regulatory system can essentially quit, which stops you from sweating as your body tries to keep water around your vital organs.  
(21) However, the sun can have a positive influence on your body by raising your energy levels. You might feel like the sun is giving you extra energy for your day, which is actually happening.  
And vitamin D from sunshine can help your body to absorb certain minerals, which are linked to building stronger bones. Therefore, I suggest you spend more time in the park with your friends, but make sure you apply lots of skin protection and fill up those water bottles, too.  

Questions 22 to 25 are based on the passage you have just heard.  
Left-handed people can find it inconvenient to do certain things, writing in a notebook for example, but there are a number of advantages of being left-handed. (22) Research found that they were overrepresented among fighters in combat sports. Left-handed fighters also had higher chances to win. This confirms the fighter theory.  
(23) Left-handers may also be better at remembering events. The explanation is that the two brain spheres of left-handers are more strongly connected.  
Being left-handed might be a factor in mathematical ability. An Italian study found that for simple arithmetic there was little difference between right- and left-handed performance, (24) but for more difficult problem-solving, left-handers won out. No one understands the reason for this.  
Left-handed people may think differently. In one study, researchers showed the participants columns of abstract illustrations and asked them which ones they would prefer. Left-handed people were more likely to prefer the images on the left. Right-handed people preferred the ones on the right. Both groups disliked stuff on their opposite side.  
Left-handers are also overrepresented in professional, interactive sports. Researchers have looked at the influence of being left-handed on performance and interactive sports. (25) Those that require the fastest reaction give left-handers the biggest advantage. So if you have a left-handed child, you should encourage them to play table tennis, baseball and tennis. Being left-handed maximizes their chances of success in these sports.