Part I  
Writing   
(30 minutes)  
Directions: Suppose your university is seeking students' opinions on whether university sports facilities should be open to the 
public. You are now to write an essay to express your view. You will have 30 minutes for the task. You should write at least 
120 words but no more than 180 words.  
Part II  
Listening Comprehension   
(25 minutes)  
Section A  
Directions: In this section, you will hear three news reports. At the end of each news report, you will hear two or three 
questions. Both the news report and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the 
best answer from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1 with a 
single line through the centre.  
Questions 1 and 2 are based on the news report you have just heard.  
1. A)It hit a bird shortly after takeoff.  
B)Its crew members went on strike.  
C)It narrowly escaped a plane crash when turning around.  
D)Its captain got slightly injured during the forced landing.  
2. A)Panic.   
C)Relieved.  
B)Nervous.  
D)Contented.  
Questions 3 and 4 are based on the news report you have just heard.  
3. A)He is now kept in a secure area.   
C)He has been caught a second time.  
B)He has escaped the zoo once again.  
D)He finally disappeared six days ago.  
4. A)Squeezed.  
C)Disappointed.  
B)Threatened.   
D)Frustrated.  
Questions 5 to 7 are based on the news report you have just heard.  
5. A)It is condemned as a crazy idea.   
C)It is questioned by local residents.  
B)It is enriching the city’s night life.  
D)It is giving rise to safety concerns.  
6. A)Avoid entering one-way streets   
C)Follow all the traffic rules drivers do.  
B)Ensure the safety of pedestrians.   
D)Give way to automobiles at all times.  
7. A)To ease the city’s busy traffic.  
C)To add a new means of transport.  
B)To bring new life into the city.  
D)To reduce the city’s air pollution.  
Section B  
Directions: In this section, you will hear two long conversations. At the end of each conversation, you will hear four questions. 
Both the conversation and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer 
from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line 
through the centre.  
Questions 8 to 11 are based on the conversation you have just heard.  
8. A)Take it seriously.   
C)Make it sound scary.  
B)Discuss it regularly.  
D)Talk about it openly.  
9. A)By shopping around for the best deals.  
C)By citing concrete examples.  
B)By making abstract sums relevant.  
D)By visiting discount stores.  
10. A)Paying their kids to help with housework.  
B)Setting kids a good example by sharing chores.  
C)Giving kids pocket money according to their needs.  
D)Urging kids to deposit some of their gift money.  
11. A)The importance of cutting down family expenses.  
C)The delight in seeing their savings grow.  
B)The need to learn important lessons from her elders.   
D)The necessity of saving into a pension.  
Questions 12 to 15 are based on the conversation you have just heard.  
12. A)He is a successful businessman.   
C)He has published a new bestseller.  
B)He reviews books on political affairs.  
D)He has worked in several banks.  
13. A)The man's ideas about education.  
C)The man's attempts at drawing public attention.  
B)The man's academic background.  
D)The man's proposals to solve economic problems.  
14. A)To reduce students' financial burden.   
C)To give students incentive to excel in economics. 
B)To motivate all students to be successful.  D)To provide remedies for students' poor performance. 
15. A)Improving school budgeting.  
C)Seeking donations.  
B)Increasing tuition fees.  
D)Raising taxes.  
Section C  
Directions: In this section, you will hear three passages. At the end of each passage, you will hear three or four questions. 
Both the passage and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer from 
the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through 
the centre.  
Questions 16 to 18 are based on the passage you have just heard.  
16. A)To show his sympathy towards people always being busy.  
B)To prevent people from complaining about being “busy”.  
C)To call on busy people to take care of themselves.  
D)To help busy people to sort out their priorities.  
17. A)Avoid saying we are busy.   
C)Describe our schedule in detail.  
B)Reflect on their true purpose.  
D)Respond as most busy people do.  
18. A)To show their achievements resulted from great efforts.  
B)To prove they stand out as accomplished professionals.  
C)To cover up their failure to achieve some purpose.  
D)To tell others a complete lie about their inability.  
Questions 19 to 21 are based on the passage you have just heard  
19. A)They will help one reduce fear.   
C)They will be less challenging after a time.  
B)They should become so popular.  
D)They should cover so many different types  
20. A)To break one's ultimate limits.   
C)To avoid dangerous mistakes.  
B)To stop being extremely afraid.   
D)To enjoy the sports to the full.  
21. A)By allowing our motivation to be at an all-time high.  
C)By burning as many as 300 calories per hour. 
B)By stopping us hurting the same muscles repeatedly.  
D)By enabling us to get an all-over workout. 
Questions 22 to 25 are based on the passage you have just heard.  
22. A)It is natural.   
C)It is personal  
B)It is instrumental.  
D)It is vital.  
23. A)To guard against being perceived negatively.  
C)To conceal personality preferences. 
B)To prevent themselves from being isolated.  
D)To maintain workplace harmony. 
24. A)It helps to enhance team spirit.   
C)It helps to resolve problems.  
B)It stimulates innovative ideas.  
D)It facilitates policy-making.  
25. A)An innovative mind.   
C)Mutual trust.  
B)Corporate culture.  
D)A healthy mentality.  
Part III   
Reading Comprehension   
(40 minutes)  
Section A  
Directions: In this section, there is a passage with ten blanks. You are required to select one word for each blank from a list 
of choices given in a word bank following the passage. Read the passage through carefully before making your choices. Each 
choice in the bank is identified by a letter. Please mark the corresponding letter for each item on Answer Sheet 2 with a single 
line through the centre. You may not use any of the words in the bank more than once.  
A team of researchers led by Priyanka Joshi examined the degree to which men and women relied on “communicative 
abstraction” to verbally convey their ideas and emotions. Communicative abstraction, according to the researchers, reflects 
the tendency of people to use “abstract speech that focuses on the broader picture and ___26___ purpose of action rather than 
concrete speech focusing on details and the means of ___27___ action.” Interestingly, they found that men were far more 
likely to speak in the abstract than were women.  
To arrive at this ___28___, the researchers examined the linguistic  patterns of men and women in over 600,000 
blog posts written on websites. To do this, the researchers computed abstractness ratings for ___29___ 40,000 commonly 
used words in the English language. Words considered to be concrete could be easily visualized such as “table” or “chair”. 
Words that were more ___30___ to visualize, for example, “justice” or “morality” were considered to be more abstract. They 
found that men used ___31___ more abstract language in their blog posts.  
What is the ___32___ of this effect? The researchers suggest that power differences between the genders — that is, men 
having more power in society — might be a key determinant  .For instance, in a follow-up study conducted with 
a sample of 300 students, the researchers ___33___ power dynamics in an interpersonal setting to see if this would influence 
communicative abstraction. They found that participants in a high-power interviewer role were more likely to give abstract 
descriptions of behaviors than were participants in a low-power interviewee role. This suggests that communicating more 
abstractly does not reflect a ___34___ tendency of men or women but rather ___35___ within specific contexts.  
A) approximately 
I) manipulated 
B) attaining 
J) recommended 
C) conclusion 
K) refraining 
D) difficult 
L) signals 
E) emerges 
M) significantly 
F) fixed 
N) source 
G) ignored 
O) ultimate 
H) legally 
Section B  
Directions: In this section, you are going to read a passage with ten statements attached to it. Each statement contains 
information given in one of the paragraphs. Identify the paragraph from which the information is derived. You may choose a 
paragraph more than once. Each paragraph is marked with a letter. Answer the questions by marking the corresponding letter 
on Answer Sheet 2.  
How to better work towards long-term goals 
A) Hal Hershfield, a psychologist at the UCLA Anderson School of Management, wanted to know why people weren't 
saving for retirement. Across the board, people are living longer. Logically, they'll need more money to live comfortably in 
their post-work years. And yet, savings rates in the U.S. have gone down in recent decades, not up.  
B) To help explain this seemingly irrational behavior, Hershfield and his team scanned the brains of study participants 
while asking them to what degree various traits  — like “honorable” or “funny” — applied to their current self, their 
future self, a current other, or a future other. As participants answered, Hershfield's team recorded which parts of their brains 
lit up. Unsurprisingly, people’s brains were most active when thinking about their current selves and least active when thinking 
about a current other. But the team found that participants' brain activity while considering their future selves more closely 
resembled their brain activity while thinking about a current other rather than the current self.  
C) Put in practical terms, when thinking of yourself in a month or a year or a decade, your brain registers that person in 
ways similar to how it would register Taylor Swift or the mailman. Understood in that way, saving for retirement is the 
equivalent of giving money away to someone else entirely.  
D) In light of Hershfield’s study, one simple question arises: Is it possible to make our present selves give a damn about 
our future selves? The answers are anything but simple.  
E) Seen through the lens of the present self versus the future self. our self-defeating actions — like choosing to watch 
television rather than go to the gym — suddenly make perfect sense. We get to enjoy the very concrete, immediate benefits 
of our actions while someone else (namely: our future selves) suffers the hypothetical  far-off consequences. As a 
result, the decisions we make for our present selves often look very different from our decisions for our future selves. We 
believe that tomorrow will be different. We believe that we will be different tomorrow, but in doing so, we prioritize our 
current mood over the consequences of our inaction for the future self.  
F) Understanding our procrastination  through the lens of the present and future selves, we're left with three 
possible solutions: The first is to force your future self to do whatever your present self doesn't want to do. The second is to 
convince your present self that your future self is, in fact, still you. If the central problem is that we think of our future selves 
as other people, it follows that trying to identify more closely with our future selves will encourage us to make better long-
term decisions.  
G) In a follow-up study, Hershfield wanted to explore ways to bridge the disconnect between the present and future 
selves and encourage people to save more for retirement. He and his team took photos of study participants, and then used 
image processing to visually age their faces. Participants were then placed in a virtual reality setting where they could look 
into a mirror and see their aged selves looking back at them. Participants who saw their aged selves said they would save 30% 
more of their salary for retirement than the control group.  
H) Whatever your long-term goals may be—getting in better shape, launching your own business, writing a book — 
thinking about your deadline in terms of days rather than months or years can help you wrap your mind around how close the 
future really is.  
I) The third solution is to forget about your future self and use your present self’s love of instant gratification  
to your advantage. While the two tactics  above can be effective in making better long-term choices, in the end, you're 
still struggling against human nature. Our brains are hardwired for instant gratification. Instead of fighting your present self’s 
need for immediate rewards, why not use it to your advantage? When most of us set goals, we focus on long-term results We 
want to see — e.g. losing weight, getting a promotion, retiring in comfort, etc. While those visions of our future selves can be 
inspiring, when it comes to actually doing the day-to-day work, it may be more effective to reframe activities in terms of their 
immediate, or at least very near-term rewards.  
J) Take writing this article, for instance. It’s easy for me to imagine how amazing it will feel at the end of the workday 
to have this article done. This isn't just my opinion. Research partners Kaitlin Woolley of Cornell University and Ayelet 
Fishbach of the University of Chicago have made a career out of studying the differences between the goals that people 
achieve and the ones that fall to the wayside.  
K) “In one study, we asked people online about the goals they set at the beginning of the year. Most people set goals to 
achieve delayed, long-term benefits, such as career advancement, debt repayment, or improved health. We asked these 
individuals how enjoyable it was to pursue their goal, as well as how important their goal was. We also asked whether they 
were still working on their goals two months after setting them. We found that enjoyment predicted people’s goal persistence 
two months after setting the goal far more than how important they rated their goal to be.” Woolley said.  
L) This pattern held true across a wide variety of goals from exercising to studying to eating healthier foods. For example, 
people ate 50% more of a healthy food when directed to focus on the good taste rather than the long-term health benefits. 
Other studies have shown a greater uptake of exercise in people who were told to think of the enjoyment of doing the exercise 
now rather than future health gains.  
M) These findings suggest that when it comes to achieving your goals, enjoying the process itself is more important than 
wanting the long-term benefits. In other words, present self trumps  future self. Who says instant gratification has to 
be a bad thing? By all means, set ambitious long-term goals for your future self, but when it comes to actually following 
through day-to-day, make sure your present self knows what's in it for her too.  
36.Our brains are genetically determined to satisfy immediate desires.  
37.Taken in a practical way, saving for post-work years is like giving money away to others.  
38.Research found that, as regards achievement of one’s goals, it is important to focus more on enjoying the process than the 
long-term benefits.  
39.Regarding our future selves as still being ourselves will help us make better long-term decisions.  
40.Savings rates in America have dropped in recent decades even though people’s life expectancy has increased.  
41.Researchers found that enjoyment rather than importance enabled people to persist in their goals.  
42.When making decisions, we give priority to our current frame of mind without thinking much of the consequences.  
43 People ate more of a healthy food when they focused on its good taste instead of its long-term benefits.  
44.As was expected, when people thought of their present selves, their brains were observed to become more active.  
45.Researchers found that participants who saw the images of their aged selves would save more for their later years than 
those who didn't.  
Section C  
Directions: There are 2 passages in this section. Each passage is followed by some questions or unfinished statements. For 
each of them there are four choices marked A), B), C) and D). You should decide on the best choice and mark the corresponding 
letter on Answer Sheet 2 with a single line through the centre.  
Passage One  
Questions 46 to 50 are based on the following passage.  
People often wonder why some entrepreneurs have greater success than others. Is it habits, connections, luck, work ethic 
or any other behavior? I believe the key to success is willpower. Willpower is the ability to control yourself. It is a strong 
determination that allows you to do something difficult. It is a behavior we are born with more than one we learn. However, 
it is possible to not only learn it, but also strengthen it with constant exercise.  
Willpower is just like a muscle, to keep it strong you need to constantly exercise it. People with a great amount of 
willpower have the discipline to develop positive, successful habits. Even with an incredible amount of talent, without the 
discipline and motivation to create positive habits, it can be difficult to achieve success.  
Willpower and habits go hand in hand. It is critical to create good habits and take the actions necessary to stick to those 
habits day in and day out for greater success. Almost half of our daily actions are part of our habits and not decisions, so once 
the correct habits are in place, you will automatically perform those tasks on a day-to-day basis.  
The best way to create and stick to a habit is to have strong motivation. It's easier to change your habits to lose weight if 
you have a health issue and you want to be around longer for your kids, or if your business is something you're passionate 
about. Having a valuable outcome associated with a habit will help you stick to that habit permanently.  
The art of self-control is one that most successful individuals have mastered. Self-control enables you to avoid behaviors 
that don't contribute to your success and adopt those that do.  
Because there is a delayed satisfaction associated with self-control, it can be easy to get off track. However, if you work 
on sticking to those small positive habits one day at a time, it becomes easier to stay strong and achieve that delayed reward. 
Once a reward is achieved, it is much easier to continue sticking to your habits. 
46.What does the author say we need to do to strengthen our willpower?  
A)Keep it under control.   
C)Learn from entrepreneurs.  
B)Apply it continuously.  
D)Aim at success determinedly.  
47.How are almost half of our daily actions performed according to the passage?  
A)Out of habit.  
C)Like muscle building.  
B)With determination.   
D)By self-discipline  
48.What will help people stick to doing something constructive automatically?  
A)Practising it on a day-to-day basis.  
C)Possessing a reasonable amount of talent  
B)Associating it with improving health.  D)Foreseeing the desired outcome it will yield.  
49.How does the art of self-control help us succeed?  
A)By allowing us to remain clear-headed permanently.  
C)By enabling us to take positive actions  
B)By enabling us to alter our behaviors constantly.  
D)By allowing us to avoid taking risks.  
50.Why can it be difficult for us to maintain self-control?  
A)Most of us are not in the habit of exercising self-control.  
B)We may not get immediate rewards from self-control.  
C)Self-control tends to be associated with pains.  
D)Self-control only brings about small benefits.  
Passage Two  
Questions 51 to 55 are based on the following passage.  
Today, most scientific research is funded by government grants, companies doing research and development and non-
profit foundations. As a society, we reap the rewards from this science but we also help pay for it. You indirectly support 
science through taxes you pay, products and services you purchase, and donations you make.  
Funding for science has changed with the times. Historically, science has been largely supported through private 
patronage , church sponsorship or simply paying for the research yourself. Today, researchers are likely to be funded 
by a mix of grants from various government agencies, institutions, and foundations. Other research is funded by private 
companies. Such corporate sponsorship is widespread in some fields. Almost 75% of U.S. clinical trials in medicine are paid 
for by private companies. And, of course, some researchers today still fund small-scale studies out of their own pockets. Most 
of us can’t afford to do nuclear research as a private hobby, but bird watchers, rock collectors, and others can do real research 
on a limited budget.  
In a perfect world, money wouldn’t matter — all scientific studies would be completely objective. But in the real world, 
funding may introduce biases. Drug research sponsored by the pharmaceutical  industry is more likely to end up 
favoring the drug under consideration than studies sponsored by government grants or charitable organizations. Similarly, 
nutrition research sponsored by the food industry is more likely to end up favoring the food under consideration than 
independently funded research.  
So what should we make of all this? Should we ignore any research funded by companies or special interest groups? 
Certainly not. These groups provide invaluable funding for scientific research. Furthermore, science has many safeguards in 
place to catch instances of bias that affect research outcomes. Ultimately, misleading results will be corrected as science 
proceeds, however, this process takes time. Meanwhile, it pays to examine studies funded by industry or special interest 
groups with extra care. Are the results consistent with other independently funded studies? What do other scientists have to 
say about this research? A little examination can go a long way towards identifying bias associated with the funding source.  
51.What does the passage mainly discuss regarding scientific research?  
A)Its foundation.  
C)Its prospect.  
B)Its rewards.   
D)Its funding.  
52.What do we learn from the passage about researchers like birdwatchers and rock collectors?  
A)They have little access to government funding.   
C)They can do amateur work in their own fields  
B)They can do research with limited resources.  
D)They have no means for large-scale research.  
53.What would scientific studies look like in a perfect world according to the author?  
A)They would be totally unbiased.  
C)They would be responsibly conducted.  
B)They would be independently funded.  
D)They would be strictly supervised.  
54.What does the author say about companies and special interest groups?  
A)They try hard to pull down the safeguards for research.  
B)They make extra efforts to research their own products.  
C)They provide valuable resources for scientific research.  
D)They reap the most benefits from scientific research  
55.What does the author think of research funded by industry or special interest groups?  
A)Its recommendations should be examined for feasibility.  
B)Its misleading results should be corrected in time.  
C)Its validity should be checked with additional care.  
D)Its hidden biases should be identified independently  