Part I  
Writing   
(30 minutes)  
Directions: Suppose your university is seeking students' opinions on whether university canteens should be open to the public. 
You are now to write an essay to express your view. You will have 30 minutes for the task. You should write at least 120 words 
but no more than 180 words.  
Part II  
Listening Comprehension   
(25 minutes)  
Part III   
Reading Comprehension   
(40 minutes)  
Section A  
Directions: In this section, there is a passage with ten blanks. You are required to select one word for each blank from a list 
of choices given in a word bank following the passage. Read the passage through carefully before making your choices. Each 
choice in the bank is identified by a letter. Please mark the corresponding letter for each item on Answer Sheet 2 with a single 
line through the centre. You may not use any of the words in the bank more than once.  
Over the coming decades, millions of jobs will be threatened by robotics and artificial intelligence. Despite intensive 
academic ___26___ on these developments, there has been little study on how workers ___27___ to being replaced through 
technology.  
To find out, business researchers at TUM and Erasmus University Rotterdam conducted 11 studies and surveys with over 
2,000 persons from several countries.  
The findings show: in principle, most people view it more ___28___ when workers are replaced by other people than by 
robots or intelligent software. This preference ___29___, however, when it refers to people’s own jobs. When that is the case, 
the majority of workers find it less upsetting to see their own jobs go to robots than to other employees. In the long term, 
however, the same people see machines as more threatening to their future role in the workforce. These effects can also be 
observed among people who have recently become unemployed.  
The researchers were able to identify the causes behind these ___30___ paradoxica results, too: People tend to ___31___ 
themselves less with machines than with other people. Consequently, being replaced by a robot or software ___32___ less of 
a threat to their feeling of self-worth. This reduced self-threat could even be observed when participants assumed that they 
were being replaced by other employees who relied on technological abilities such as artificial intelligence in their work.  
“Even when unemployment results from the ___33___ of new technologies, people still judge it in a social context,” 
says Christoph Fuchs, one of the authors of the study. “It is important to understand these ___34___ effects when trying to 
manage the massive changes in the working world to minimize ___35___ in society.”  
A) compare 
I) introduction 
B) contradicts 
J) modifications 
C) conventional 
K) poses 
D) debate 
L) psychological 
E) disruptions 
M) react 
F) drastically 
N) reverses 
G) favorably 
O) seemingly 
H) guarantee 
Section B  
Directions: In this section, you are going to read a passage with ten statements attached to it. Each statement contains 
information given in one of the paragraphs. Identify the paragraph from which the information is derived. You may choose a 
paragraph more than once. Each paragraph is marked with a letter. Answer the questions by marking the corresponding letter 
on Answer Sheet 2.  
No escape as “snow day” becomes “e-learning day” 
A) Certain institutions, such as schools are likely to close when bad weather, such as snow, flooding, or extreme heat or 
cold, causes travel difficulties, power outages  or otherwise endangers public safety. When snowy weather arrives in 
the US, it means the chance of school children benefiting from the long-standing tradition of the “snow day”, when schools 
are forced to close and students get an unexpected day off.  
B) The criterion for a snow day is primarily the inability of school buses to operate safely on their routes and danger to 
children who walk to school. Often, the school remains officially open even though buses do not run and classes are canceled. 
Severe weather that causes cancellation or delay is more likely in regions that are less able to handle the situation. Snow days 
are less common in more northern areas of the United States that are used to heavy winter snowfall because municipalities 
are well equipped to clear roads and remove snow. In areas less accustomed to snow, even small snowfalls of an inch or two 
may render roads unsafe.  
C) Snow days are a familiar theme in American film and TV shows, with children getting the good news and then running 
outside for some seasonal snowman-building and snowball throwing, against a background of joyful pop music. But the 
tradition is now over for pupils in several US states such as South Carolina, Nevada, Georgia and Indiana. This academic year, 
many school boards have introduced policies which require students to work from home if the school is shut by snow or 
extreme weather. They are known as “e-learning days”, which certainly sounds less fun than a snow day.  
D) Teachers are also losing their snow days and instead will be expected to be on hand to take a virtual register and 
answer students’ questions online. A pilot programme in a school district in Anderson County, South Carolina, has supplied 
students with electronic tablets loaded with assignments to complete in the event of a school closure. If it is successful, it 
could be rolled out across the state.  
E) But some parents object to the new policy if the vigorous debate on the Facebook page of Anderson County school 
district is anything to go by. “When it snows, let the kids enjoy it.” said one commenter. Another said the decision would “ruin 
school even more”, and someone else called snow days “a fun part of childhood”. But supporters of the policy say it means 
children will miss fewer days of school. It will also bring to an end a less popular US high school tradition: the “make-up day” 
which requires students in many states to make up the time lost due to weather by working during school holidays.  
F) Students in North Carolina already have several make-up days scheduled because of school closures during Hurricane 
Florence, which struck in September. Tom Wilson, the superintendent  of Anderson County school district said the 
change away from snow days makes practical and financial sense. He said technology has changed every profession, so it 
makes sense to use it to “eliminate” make-up days. Adam Baker of the Department of Education in Indiana said e-learning 
days were proving a “great success”. He said most Indiana schools already use digital devices during lessons, so it was an 
“easy decision” to extend this to days when schools are closed. He denies the decision is depriving children of the chance to 
enjoy the snow. “Students are still able to enjoy snow days and outside time,” he said. “Many have PE and science assignments 
that have them out enjoying the weather.” But local school superintendents in Ohio are resisting proposals to adopt e-learning 
days. They fear that students without internet access at home will be disadvantaged by the policy, and superintendent Tom 
Roth is concerned that e-learning days will offer a lower quality of education.  
G) There are also so-called “blizzard bags”, with assignments that children take home ahead of an expected snow closure. 
But Mr. Roth says it is not sufficient as a replacement. “I think we still need the class time to give our kids the education that 
they deserve.” he said. “You can't get that with a blizzard bag or doing the work from home like that. It’s not going to be as 
effective.”  
H) There is a long-running debate on whether missing days of school affects attainment. In England. there has been a 
focus on tackling absenteeism  from school. The Department for Education (DFE) published research in 2016 arguing 
that missing any days at school could have a negative impact on results. Even a few days lost in a year could be enough to 
miss out on getting a good exam grade, the DFE’s research concluded. This differed from the findings of a study from Harvard 
University in the US, which concluded that missing a few occasional days because of the weather did not damage learning.  
I) The Harvard study examined seven years of school results data and could not find any impact from snow closures. 
What caused more disruption was when schools tried to stay open in bad weather even though many staff and pupils were 
absent. But weather can make a difference to school results, according to another piece of Harvard research published last 
summer. It's hot weather that has the negative impact. The results of 10 million school students were examined over 13 years 
and researchers found a “significant” link between years with extremely hot weather and lower results.  
J) It's obvious that students should go to school every day to get the most out of education. In cases of extreme weather, 
students don't always have that option. However, research shows that authorised absences from school such as during extreme 
weather are less problematic for students than absences that are not authorised. This is because unauthorised absences tend to 
reflect patterns and behaviours of student disengagement or the possible negative attitudes of parents towards education that 
students adopt and carry with them through schooling. The level of impact on students’ educational performance is all to do 
with the length of time that a student is absent from school and how regularly this occurs.  
36.There is opposition to the practice of giving children assignments to take home before extreme weather forces a school 
closure. 
37.New policies adopted by many US schools require students to do online learning at home in case of a school closure.  
38.According to some research, extreme hot weather negatively affects students’ performance.  
39.There is a time-honoured tradition in the US for school kids to stay at home on “snow days”.  
40.Debates on social media show some parents are opposed to ending the “snow day” tradition.  
41.In more northern regions of the US, school is less likely to be affected by snowy weather.  
42.Research indicates absences from school with permission do not cause as many problems as those without permission.  
43.There is objection to e-learning days owing to fear that students with no access to the Internet at home will suffer.  
44.In a pilot programme, students are given electronic devices to do assignments when schools are closed.  
45.A long-standing debate is going on over the impact of school absences on students’ academic performance.  
Section C  
Directions: There are 2 passages in this section. Each passage is followed by some questions or unfinished statements. For 
each of them there are four choices marked A), B), C) and D). You should decide on the best choice and mark the corresponding 
letter on Answer Sheet 2 with a single line through the centre.  
Passage One  
Questions 46 to 50 are based on the following passage.  
It may sound surprising, but you don't have to be interested in fashion, or even in history, to enjoy Dress Codes: How 
the Laws of Fashion Made History. I happen to be interested in both, and ended up enjoying the book for completely different 
reasons.  
Richard Thompson Ford is a law professor, and you probably won't forget that for even one page. His carefully reasoned 
arguments, packed with examples, sound almost like reading a court opinion, only maybe wordier. You will probably never 
think of fashion as a trifle again.  
Ford's thesis is that the best way to understand what particular fashions meant in any given era is to look at the restrictions 
placed on them. Through this lens, he shows us that the first laws passed in the 1200s to ensure that only the nobility were 
allowed to wear certain fabrics, colors and ornaments reflected the rise of the middle class, who were now able to imitate 
some of these fashions. The status of the upper classes was threatened: fashion was a tool to preserve it.  
Ford takes the reader through the evolution of fashion while examining the underlying motivations of status: sex, power, 
and personality, which, he assumes, influenced all innovations in fashion in the past and which continue to influence us today. 
His writing is more than a little dense — dense with research, clauses, and precise adjectives and nouns. But there's also 
humor and enough interesting episodes to make the writing appealing. No one is spared his sharp analysis: not the easy targets 
of 19th century women's crippling  fashions nor the modern uniforms of Silicon Valley T-shirts.  
But the greatest strength of this book (on fashion!) is its intellectual profoundness. Ford asks us to question unconscious 
beliefs, to realize that we almost never do so, to understand that the simplest choices are charged with meaning, and yet that 
meaning can and does change all the time. Consider the fact that a 1918 catalog insisted that boys and girls be dressed in the 
appropriate color. We believe our thinking today is evolved. Ford shows us it’s not.  
46.What does the author think of the book Dress Codes: How the Laws of Fashion Made History?  
A) It is read by people for entirely different reasons  
C) It makes enjoyable as well as informative reading.  
B) It is meant for those interested in fashion history  
D) It converts fashion into something for deliberation. 
47.How can people best understand a particular fashion in an era, according to Ford?  
A)By examining the restraints imposed on it.   
C)By glancing at its fabrics, colors, and ornaments.  
B)By looking at what the nobility were wearing.  
D)By doing a survey of the upper and middle classes.  
48.What was the aim of the first laws passed regarding fashion in the 1200s?  
A)To facilitate the rise of the middle class.  
C)To help initiate some novel fashions.  
B)To loosen restrictions on dress codes.   
D)To preserve the status of the nobles.  
49.What does the author think of Ford's writing?  
A)It uses comparison and contrast in describing fashions of different eras  
B)It makes heavy reading but is not lacking in humor or appeal  
C)It is filled with interesting episodes to spare readers intolerable boredom.  
D)It is characteristic of academics in presenting arguments.  
50.What does the author say is the greatest strength of Ford's book?  
A)Plentiful information.   
C)Evolved thinking.  
B)Meaningful choices.  
D)Intellectual depth.  
Passage Two  
Questions 51 to 55 are based on the following passage.  
The art of persuasion means convincing others to agree with your point of view or to follow your course of action. For 
some of us, persuasion is an instinctive quality and the power of influencing comes naturally. For the rest of us, persuasion 
skills can be learned and developed over time.  
Employers place a great value on employees with persuasion skills because they can impact several aspects of job 
performance. Besides, teamwork and leadership rely heavily on the power of persuasion to get things done. Without 
persuasion skills, employees may not be as committed to or convinced of the importance of an organization's vision and long-
term mission. Effective use of persuasion skills will not only help get your coworkers excited about your ideas, it’ll also help 
you motivate them to achieve a common goal.  
In order to learn the art of persuasion at the workplace, you need to understand how to handle conflicts and reach 
agreements. Good communication is the first step in effective persuasion, but logic and reasoning are just as important. Before 
you can get somebody on-board with your goal, you should help them understand why they should pursue it. Using visual 
aids to back up your ideas can help communicate your ideas better and make compelling arguments so your listeners will 
come to a logical choice and become fully committed to your ideas and plans.  
Successful persuasion skills are based on your ability to have positive interactions and maintain meaningful relationships 
with people. In order to sustain those relationships, you must be able to work in their best interests as well. Your coworkers 
are more likely to agree with you when they succeed alongside you. The more they achieve and the greater progress they 
make, the more they trust your judgement and strength.  
We persuade and get persuaded every day — were either convincing or being convinced. A vast majority of people prefer 
collaboration and teamwork over traditional organizational structures, no one likes to be told what to do or to be pushed 
around. Therefore, organizations and leaders should adopt powerful persuasion skills to bring about necessary changes.  
51.What does the author say about the ability to be persuasive in the first paragraph?  
A)People may cither be born with it or be able to cultivate it.  
B)It proves crucial in making others follow one's course of action.  
C)It refers to the natural and instinctive power of influencing one’s coworkers.  
D)People may view it as both a means to convince others and an art of communication.  
52.Why are persuasion skills greatly valued in the workplace?  
A)They enable employees to be convinced of their long-term gains.  
B)They enable employees to trust their leaders unconditionally.  
C)They help motivate coworkers to strive for a common goal.  
D)They help an organization to broaden its vision effectively.  
53.What should people do to learn the art of persuasion at the workplace?  
A)Acquire effective communication skills.  
C)Understand the reason for pursuing their goals  
B)Avoid getting involved in conflicts with others.  D)Commit themselves fully to their ideas and plans  
54.When are you more likely to succeed in persuading your coworkers?  
A)When they are convinced you work in their interests while sacrificing your own.  
B)When they become aware of the potential strength of the judgements you make.  
C)When they become aware of the meaningful relationships you keep with them.  
D)When they are convinced they will make achievements together with you.  
55.Why are organizations and leaders advised to adopt powerful persuasion skills to bring about necessary changes?  
A)To convince employees of the value of collaboration.  
B)To allow for the preferences of most people of today  
C)To improve on traditional organizational structures  
D)To adapt to employees’ ever-changing working styles.  