Part I  
Writing   
(30 minutes) 
Directions: Suppose your university is seeking students’ opinions on the necessity of making College Chinese a compulsory 
course. You are now to write an essay to express your view. You will have 30 minutes to write the essay. You should write at 
least 120 words but no more than 180 words.  
Part II  
Listening Comprehension   
(25 minutes)  
Section A  
Directions: In this section, you will hear three news reports. At the end of each news report, you will hear two or three 
questions. Both the news report and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the 
best answer from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1 with a 
single line through the centre.  
Questions 1 and 2 are based on the news report you have just heard.  
1. A) By slapping some butter on it.  
C) By growing it in South Dakota.  
B) By enhancing its nourishment.   
D) By cooking it in vegetable oil.  
2. A) To introduce their corn to tourists.  
C) To share experience with other corn growers.  
B) To attend an honorary ceremony.  
D) To exhibit their corn at the state’s Corn Palace. 
Questions 3 and 4 are based on the news report you have just heard.  
3. A) Stole mail several times.  
C) Attacked postmen on multiple occasions.  
B) Forged postal keys illegally.  
D) Broke a number of postal collection boxes.  
4. A) A sentence for life.  
C) Twenty-three years’ hard labor.  
B) Loss of all their possessions.  
D) Up to fifteen years in prison. 
Questions 5 to 7 are based on the news report you have just heard.  
5. A) It escapes regulation and misleads consumers.  
B) It ignores economically feasible recycling options.  
C) It creates waste and severely impacts the environment.  
D) It produces clothes affordable only to a tiny minority.  
6. A) To cut consumers’ expenses in buying quality clothes.  
B) To enable the whole fast-fashion industry to be sustainable.  
C) To incentivize manufacturers to be more consumer-friendly.  
D) To urge manufacturers and consumers to reduce waste.  
7. A) Recognizing the impact on consumers.  
C) Abandoning the current business model.  
B) Identifying the source of the problem.  
D) Establishing powerful regulatory bodies.  
Section B  
Directions: In this section, you will hear two long conversations. At the end of each conversation, you will hear four questions. 
Both the conversation and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer 
from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line 
through the centre.  
Questions 8 to 11 are based on the conversation you have just heard.  
8. A) The city’s rush-hour traffic is intolerable.   
C) The local government is inefficient.  
B) She cannot avoid rush-hour traffic.  
D) The city is too big to move around easily. 
9. A) Upgrading subway carriages.  
C) Air conditioning the city’s subway. 
B) Increasing the number of bus routes.   
D) Learning from other big cities. 
10. A) He suffers from rush-hour crowding too.   
C) He takes a half-hour bus ride to work. 
B) He is fortunate to live very near to work.   
D) He is going to move closer to his office. 
11. A) Recommend to her a good house near his office.  
B) Send her his housing agent’s telephone number.  
C) Tell her exactly what kind of property to look for.  
D) Make sure the agent finds something good for her.  
Questions 12 to 15 are based on the conversation you have just heard.  
12. A) He was remembered for the scar on his cheek.   
C) He used to wear a sad face in school. 
B) He received a heart operation a few days ago.   
D) He had some plastic surgery done. 
13. A) The man’s deep sympathy for Johnny.  
C) The man’s covering up of what happened. 
B) The man’s use of the expression ‘fixed’.   
D) The man’s good memory of his childhood. 
14. A) It gave him a noticeable smartness.   
C) It seemed to give him a certain uniqueness.  
B) It made him appear even more manly.  
D) It seemed to make up for his physical defects.  
15. A) Liberal.  
C) Indifferent.  
B) Hostile.  
D) Critical.  
Section C  
Directions: In this section, you will hear three passages. At the end of each passage, you will hear three or four questions. 
Both the passage and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer from 
the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through 
the centre.  
Questions 16 to 18 are based on the passage you have just heard.  
16. A) Through deliberation.  
C) Through invention. 
B) Through evolution.   
D) Through collaboration. 
17. A) With people imitating sounds around them.  
C) With people showing each other things nearby. 
B) With people interacting with animals close by.   
D) With people trying to string sounds together.  
18. A) Making sounds can free one’s hands for doing other things.  
B) Making sounds proves markedly easier than sign languages. 
C) Making sounds enables one to express their ideas more explicitly.  
D) Making sounds helps one communicate with people they can’t see. 
Questions 19 to 21 are based on the passage you have just heard.  
19. A) Well disciplined.  
C) Somewhat selfish.  
B) Quite confident.   
D) Highly intelligent.  
20. A) When they wanted to have a competitive team member.  
B) When they were looking for a cooperative workmate.  
C) When they found collaboration essential to them. 
D) When they were seeking someone to help them. 
21. A) Avoid frightening competitors.   
C) Adopt persuasive strategies.  
B) Make clear their social goal.    
D) Consider the consequences.  
Questions 22 to 25 are based on the passage you have just heard.  
22. A) Much evidence of humans capturing animals.   
C) Fewer images of buildings than animals.  
B) More images of animals than humans.  
D) Little proof of human fascination with animals.  
23. A) They were open to the public.   
C) They were kept by royalty.  
B) They were primarily native.  
D) They were hardly injured.  
24. A) To enable the public to watch animals close by.  
C) To protect the endangered animals.  
B) To introduce to Egyptians animals from Punt.   
D) To show off her riches and power.  
25. A) It was part of the royal estate.   
C) It was the kingdom’s best-equipped zoo.  
B) It was a shelter for wild animals.  
D) It was the first public exhibit of animals.  
Part III   
Reading Comprehension   
(40 minutes)  
Section A  
Directions: In this section, there is a passage with ten blanks. You are required to select one word for each blank from a list 
of choices given in a word bank following the passage. Read the passage through carefully before making your choices. Each 
choice in the bank is identified by a letter. Please mark the corresponding letter for each item on Answer Sheet 2 with a single 
line through the centre. You may not use any of the words in the bank more than once.  
Psychologists have long been interested in how we construct our identities and the sorts of strategies that we use to 
present ourselves in society. New findings suggest that the kinds of ___26___ and strategic self-presentation behaviour we 
see in adults appear at a much younger age than ___27___ known.  
Research shows that a child’s awareness of social standing comes from adults. Like grown-ups, kids want to be ___28___ 
by those they admire. Interactive experiences may provide opportunities for children to learn about what ___29___ a desirable 
reputation and the kinds of strategies that are effective for ___30___ a good reputation in their social environment.  
Five-year-olds aren’t just aware of their reputations, they also behave strategically to alter their outward image. They 
will ___31___ their behaviour in order to appear moral or socially good in the eyes of key observers. While we know that 
adults use a large variety of attributes to manage and create impressions, we don’t yet know whether children ___32___ and 
use the fact that different attributes are valuable at different times to different ___33___. It’s important for us to further 
consider where in this process children succeed in controlling their reputation and where they ___34___.  
A question to think about is, “What happens even earlier than age five?” Children don’t just show up to the first day of 
kindergarten and have the idea of reputation pop ___35___ into existence. The logical question to ask is, “What happens even 
earlier?” 
A) accepted  
I) samples 
B) audiences  
J) selected 
C) building  
K) solemn 
D) complex  
L) struggle 
E) constitutes  
M) suddenly 
F) deputies  
N) understand 
G) previously  
O) vary 
H) revolving  
Section B  
Directions: In this section, you are going to read a passage with ten statements attached to it. Each statement contains 
information given in one of the paragraphs. Identify the paragraph from which the information is derived. You may choose a 
paragraph more than once. Each paragraph is marked with a letter. Answer the questions by marking the corresponding letter 
on Answer Sheet 2.  
Getting young minds into design 
A) Recently, a leading design federation in the UK warned that the UK could face a creative skills shortage, after the latest 
figures revealed a drop of almost 10 percent in students studying Design and Technology. These figures showed that the 
number of pupils that sat exams in Design and Technology fell 10 percent from 204,788 to 185,279 last year.  
B) Chief executive John Kampfner of the Creative Industries Federation thinks that this drop in figures has worrying 
implications for the skills pipeline in Britain’s hugely successful arts and creative industries. He said, “We already have 
skills shortages in many jobs such as animation  and special effects.” He added: “Engineering, which requires 
a similar mix of creative and technical skills, also has recruitment problems.”  
C) Many other designers and architects have expressed concern over the future supply of home-grown talent for UK firms, 
and industry bodies have pointed out that there has been a lack of roots-level support. However, if these designers had 
visited the Design Museum shop in London earlier this year their fears may have been eased. With £10 to spend, they could 
have bought a fascinating children’s toy called “Dazzle Racer”. An automotive cylinder, it included a wind-up, 
elastic -band-powered mechanism, minimal parts, all 100 percent recycled and lots of stickers. It was good fun, 
simple, eye-catching and very original.  
D) Well you’d expect the Design Museum to commission and make some interesting items, but this one was different. 
Designed by a group of six Year 9 and Year 10 boys from Finchley Catholic High School, the toy was the winning entry in 
the museum’s 2015 Design Ventura competition, which brings the business of design to life for students aged 13 to 16 by 
challenging them to develop a new creative, sustainable and commercially feasible product for the Design Museum shop 
and attracts hundreds of entries nationwide.  
E) “We did Design Ventura in my previous school,” says Liam Hourican, Finchley Catholic High School’s design technology 
curriculum leader. “Then when I changed schools four years ago, I introduced it here because it helps to develop so many 
skills.”  
F) The theme for last year’s competition was “Move”, and Hourican began with three groups working in lunch breaks and 
after school before selecting the group with the most innovative idea. Each participating school may submit just one 
proposal. “It’s the taking part and doing the work which is important,” he says. “And I never dreamt we’d win.”  
G) Catherine Ritman Smith, head of learning at the Design Museum, is expecting around 10,000 participants aged 13 to 16 
to take part this year and says that the project — funded by Deutsche Bank as part of its youth engagement programme 
Born To Be — is the biggest event in the museum’s calendar. “We started Design Ventura with around 800 young people 
in 2010 and it has grown steadily since,” she says. “Teachers like it because the skills are all transferable and it helps to 
validate the value of design as a subject,” she explains, telling me that nearly 600 schools have taken part so far.  
H) So how does the competition work? A single-word theme is announced in the summer. This year it is “Change”. Schools 
work with groups to produce imaginative design ideas for a product in simple materials that could sell for £10 in the Design 
Museum Shop. Participating schools then register by November and eventually submit their design idea. Along the way 
there is training and support for teachers and tutoring for students from designers. An additional bonus is when the winners 
see their design on sale in the spring of the following year.  
I) Hourican and his pupils have happy memories of spending a whole day at the museum, having been selected as one of 10 
shortlisted schools to present their idea to a panel of judges, including designer Jasper Conran. Then they worked with the 
Kin Design Studio in Shoreditch, met designers at their school and attended a lunch with Deutsche Bank employees. The 
students helped to make decisions and there were plenty of discussions — they changed the product’s name, for example.  
J) “One of the really useful things about this competition,” says Hourican, “is that there’s a commercial element because the 
product is going on sale for real and the boys had to learn about budgeting and marketing, as well as designing their game.” 
Profits go to charity. “The winning team chooses where it wants the profits to go,” says Ritman Smith. “The Finchley 
Catholic High School product raised about £1,000 for Great Ormond Street Hospital.” Winning entries in past years have 
included a make-your-own cloth kit called Dove Bunting and a threefold, wallet-sized travel game with goals at each end, 
called Badoiiing.  
K) It costs the schools nothing to participate in Design Ventura; the professional designers provide their services for free. 
Among them are architect Asif Khan, a Design Museum trustee who has worked as designer-in-residence at the museum, 
helping emerging architects. He has recently been commissioned to design the new Museum of London building in 
Smithfield.  
L) Another is television presenter and interior designer Naomi Cleaver, who is one of the competition’s judges. “I'm very 
keen to encourage young people,” she says, observing that design brings together other subjects such as literature, art, 
history, geography and science. “Now that design education is limited in the curriculum, I’m all in favour of competitions 
such as Design Ventura, which helps to bring the standard curriculum to life,” says Cleaver. “And the judging day is terrific 
fun. Some of these students are very imaginative. One group presented their idea in the form of a puppet show and we see 
some marvelous demonstration models. “I’m always impressed by the levels of confidence and the support the students get 
from their teachers.”  
M) Ritman Smith adds: “Design technology has become a tricky subject to make a case for, and we’ve heard of departments 
closing in some schools. We find that if pupils take part in Design Ventura in Year Nine it can be the trigger which leads 
them to opt for it at General Certificate of Secondary Education, so we are helping to keep alive something which is crucial 
to industry and entrepreneurship.”  
36. During the course of preparing for Design Ventura, teachers receive training and support while students get tutoring from 
designers.  
37. A visit to the Design Museum shop in London can reduce the designers’ fears about the future supply of talents educated 
in Britain.  
38. One of Design Ventura’s judges says the competition adds vigour to the standard curriculum in schools.  
39. Enrollment in Design and Technology decreased by nearly ten percent last year in the UK.  
40. Participation of ninth graders in Design Ventura can motivate them to choose design technology as their subject.  
41. Design Ventura is welcomed by teachers because it helps to prove the worth of design as a school subject.  
42. The schools don’t have to pay anything to take part in the Design Ventura competition.  
43. Participants in Design Ventura are challenged to create sustainable and marketable products.  
44. Students benefit from Design Ventura because they can learn about budgeting and marketing in addition to game design.  
45. According to an officer of the Creative Industries Federation, there is difficulty now in recruiting engineers in the UK.  
Section C  
Directions: There are 2 passages in this section. Each passage is followed by some questions or unfinished statements. For 
each of them there are four choices marked A), B), C) and D). You should decide on the best choice and mark the corresponding 
letter on Answer Sheet 2 with a single line through the centre.  
Passage One  
Questions 46 to 50 are based on the following passage.  
New research suggests that pandas may be at risk of dying out because they are too comfortable. Experts say too much 
happiness can stop the bears from searching for new mates.  
Environmentalists have long believed that building roads or homes near the bears may threaten their survival by 
“reducing or fragmenting their natural habitats”, The Times reported. But the new research suggests that a “modest degree of 
discomfort and fragmentation” may actually help preserve panda populations.  
The research was conducted by scientists from Michigan State University. It concluded that pandas fail to wander off in 
search of new mates if they find their habitat too comfortable, resulting in a lack of vital genetic diversity.  
For their study — outlined in a paper in the journal Conservation Biology — the team looked at genetic diversity and 
spread among a Chinese panda population. The ideal level of perfectly livable habitat was found to be only 80% of an area, 
with the remainder either too harsh or too affected by human activity.  
The experts concluded that pandas should ideally “be happy enough to thrive, but not so content that they don’t want to 
move around and find new mates”.  
Their conclusions about what The Guardian described as this “sweet spot” are in line with the so-called Goldilocks 
principle: that there can be just the right amount of something. The concept has been applied to a wide range of disciplines, 
from developmental psychology to economics and engineering.  
Claudio Sillero, a professor of conservation biology at Oxford University, told the newspaper that the new findings could 
have implications beyond panda conservation.  
“Most large animals that eat meat live in increasingly fragmented landscapes,” said Sillero, who was not involved in the 
research. “It may well be that the messy nature of their relationship with human efforts induces more animals to scatter or 
travel further, and might result in greater genetic connectivity and enhanced population persistence.”  
The most recent count of pandas found that there were more than 1,800 left in the wild, putting them on the list of 
vulnerable, but not endangered, species. 
46. What do we learn from new research about pandas?  
A) They are losing habitat due to the building of roads and houses.  
B) They have stopped seeking new mates for reproduction.  
C) They may not adapt to the fragmentation of their habitat.  
D) They may cease to exist as a result of enjoying too good a life.  
47. What can we conclude from the new research by scientists at Michigan State University?  
A) Environmentalists’ long-time belief regarding panda conservation may be misleading.  
B) Housing development near pandas’ homes may threaten their survival.  
C) Pandas’ natural habitats are becoming less suitable for reproduction.  
D) The increased panda population is attributed to the fragmentation of their habitat.  
48. What is the experts’ conclusion regarding pandas?  
A) It is urgent to provide an ideal habitat for them to thrive.  
B) It is very important to preserve their genetic diversity. 
C) Their chances of finding new mates have a lot to do with their habitat.  
D) Their environment for survival has been continuously worsening.  
49.What can we infer from the passage about the Goldilocks principle?  
A) It needs to be confirmed by more studies on pandas.  
B) It applies to the preservation of pandas too.  
C) It has implications for future panda research.  
D) It can be used to locate the right spot for pandas.  
50. What can the new findings do according to Professor Sillero?  
A) Help discover new ways for the conservation of pandas.  
B) Help remove pandas from the list of endangered species.  
C) Shed light on the conservation of most large meat-eating animals.  
D) Show the complexity of interactions between humans and animals.  
Passage Two  
Questions 51 to 55 are based on the following passage.  
With those born with natural talents, it feels as if they excel without really trying. But what about those of us who don’t 
have a natural talent? We’ve been told all our lives that if you work hard, you too can succeed. But with the release of Angela 
Duckworth’s Grit, we are given a new key to success.  
“As much as talent counts, effort counts twice,” says Duckworth in Grit. She introduces a new concept that talent may be 
overrated, and if you want real success, what you need is grit the perfect combination of passion and persistence. Even if you 
have natural talent it’s nothing without grit.  
Duckworth says grit is the difference between success and failure. A person who has grit is more likely to succeed than a 
person who does not. When we think about attaining success — whether it’s landing that job or learning that new skill — 
our thoughts are immediately burdened by all the things we must first learn. If you want that new job, you have to learn the 
job skills, then the interview skills, then the dress part — and you must be perfect at all of them. Grit is different because it 
tells us that perfection isn’t the goal.  
Grit lifts the unreasonable expectations off our shoulders. Grit tells us that the door is open wider than we first thought 
possible. Grit allows us to redefine our goals. Think about it: what’s something you’ve always wanted to do, but gave up 
because you “don’t have the skills for it”? What’s something you love but aren’t good at?  
The real workings of grit are to have sustainable passion and continue to try. Effort means more than your natural ability. 
Even if you haven’t mastered a skill, grit tells you that you can still succeed if you can transform your passion into action. In 
a way, Duckworth is giving new hope to people who have shut the doors on their dreams. She is saying it is possible that you 
can accomplish anything. If at first you fail, then try one more time with grit.  
51. What does the passage say about people born with natural talents?  
A) They seem to outdo others without hard work.   
C) They feel it only too logical to succeed.  
B) They appear to know all the secrets to success.   
D) They are bound to excel effortlessly.  
52. What does Duckworth say about talent?  
A) It is a new concept much too overrated.  
C) It plays a lesser role in one’s success.  
B) It proves necessary for big achievements.   
D) It is a guarantee for real success in life.  
53. What does the passage say about people thinking of attaining success?  
A) They are puzzled how to present their best to the employer.  
B) They are burdened by their expectation of perfection.  
C) They will try hard to land a job that fits their skills best.  
D) They will find themselves lacking in all the skills they need.  
54. How does the author think grit can be helpful to us?  
A) It allows us to know what we are good at.   
C) It focuses our attention on what we do.  
B) It opens our eyes to new opportunities.  
D) It lets us reconsider the goals to achieve.  
55. What message does Duckworth try to convey in her book Grit?  
A) We should perfect ourselves to ensure success.  
B) We should stay persistent even in face of failures.  
C) We can never master a skill without constant practice.  
D) We can never expect to reach our goals without passion. 